<h3>Abstract</h3>
Sometimes you come across small problems where you to need consult doctors about your health problems or go to the nearest ones and follow their prescriptions. A few online services will give you the power to communicate directly with the doctors of your choice as and when required for all your small problems. Using these web applications, patients will be able to fill out an online form in just a few seconds before entering the virtual office room. It will also enable you to upload your lab results such as x-ray copies, health history, etc which can be viewed by your referred doctors. Through our project, we aim to create a similar application that will help users get a diagnosis for their disease from the comfort of their homes. Moreover, if the patient chooses, they can also see a list of doctors near them who are available for further consultation/check-ups.

<h3>Introduction</h3>
Under a manual system, you have to first wait in line to take an appointment with the doctors and wait for your time to meet them and discuss your health problems. You also would have to provide your information and other reports, most of the time at different places, such as the medical store, which is again a burden of carrying documents. You have to be present physically at the doctor’s cabin. Patients have to visit on later days to consult with the doctor again and would run the risk of meeting the doctor when they do not have an appointment. Under a manual system, the only accepted payment method is cash and if patients are not having cash at that time, they may face difficulties and would not be able to get the necessary treatment. All of this is a tedious and long process, and time is of utmost importance when it comes to one’s health.
To make a truly online system to provide the contact details of online doctors and nearby, all the manual processes have been automated through this system. Patients have to provide their basic details (such as age, weight, and sex) and then choose from a list of symptoms (or type their symptoms) that would best describe their current state of being. With this information, the program would be able to diagnose the patient’s disease and show them a potential list of doctors that specialize in, or treat that disease. Through this panel, patients can select the doctors and view the doctors’ working hours and appointment slots and how and where to contact them. For the diagnosis part, the program will employ a machine learning model, that would take in input from the patient (input being the user symptoms) and then gives an output based on how the model was trained.
Various fields, such as education and healthcare, use machine learning. Advances in technology have led to better computing power and the availability of datasets on open-source repositories, which has further increased machine learning use. There are many areas in healthcare where machine learning is used. Images, patient data, and so on are produced in large quantities in the healthcare sector, helping to identify patterns and predict outcomes. In healthcare, machine learning is used to solve a variety of problems. In this way, a machine learning model can be created, trained on the dataset, and entered with details of individual patients to make predictions. Based on the data entered, the prediction result will be specific to that individual. For example, the prevention of type-2 diabetes can be achieved by controlling weight, lifestyle, and so on. Coronavirus, however, has no clearly defined treatment. Each disease has different symptoms and different cures. Therefore, the use of machine learning in our project helps us to better identify a disease.
